Welcome back.
And today we are going to speak about computer services, Amazon, EC2 and the Amazon, easy to cost
optimization and the container services.
Then we will look to the serverless computing and Amazon A.W. as Lambda and Elastic Beanstalk in a W
as there is multiple services that we can use for the compute layer and those services, the VAT, as
if from having Amazon to where we have basically a server that we can use to launch any service in the
cloud.
And we have also the container services like Amazon easy to and Amazon Elastic Container Services which
are container based computing instances.
We have also an S lambda, which is a zero administration computer platform where it enables us to run
a code without provisioning and managing servers.
You can only pay for the compute time that is consumed and this cost basically will be way much cheaper
than running a server 24 hours, seven days a week in the container based services, including Amazon
Elastic Container servers, Amazon Elastic Pranati Service and Amazon Fire Brigade, which is a server
listed cluster management system.
And we have also the Container Registry of Amazon Elastic Container Registry, which can enable us to
run multiple workload on a single operating system.
And those containers spin up more quickly than virtual machine and thus offering a responsiveness and
container based solution to continue to grow in the industry.
The first thing we will look at is Amazon is Amazon EC2 is a service to run an elastic compute service.
It is the servers that provide this with virtual machine to run in the cloud and it give us a full administration
control over the Windows or a Linux operating system that we choose.
Most server operating system are supported, including Windows and Red Hat and Ubuntu.
An operating system that runs on a virtual machine is called a guest operating system and it is easy
to distinguish it from the host operating system because the host operating system is directly installed
on the server hardware where we put our virtualization software with Amazon easy to you can launch any
number of instances of any size into any availability zone in a WAC cloud.
And you can control which machine or Amazon machine image that you want to launch in that server.
You can control the traffic to and from the instance where you can add an extra layer of security using
security group and access control list.
The first time you want to launch an Amazon AC to an instance, you will use an a w.
S management console to launch the instance.
Using the instance with you have to decide a nine key decisions in order to launch that easy to successfully.
And those are started from selecting the correct M and selecting the correct family that you want to
run the AC two.
And so let us look now into how we can launch that easy to enable us to cloud so to launch an easy to
in the sense we need to go to the Amazon US console and there in the US console we have to go to the
AC two services.
So from the services we need to select Easy two and then we will click on Launch and Innocence.
And the first thing we need to do is to decide which Amazon machine image we have and we have multiple
options we could use, the quickest of which are basically a preconfigured Amazon machines image that
is provided by us.
And we can just select them and we can have here any operating system of our choice, like Windows or
Ubuntu or even any other operating system.
Now most importantly to know here that you could also launch an Amazon machine image based on your arm.
So let's say you have an easy to it is running it has and contains all the software that you need for
your application.
Then you could go to the Amazon m i by creating an am I and you will be use it to basically launch more
machines.
The Amazon marketplace or the A.W. s marketplace is the place where you can find a digital catalog of
thousands of software solutions that offered by a third party.
And normally those are paid software you could also find in the community which are created by people.
Around the world and these can be used and checked by IWC so you can launch your easy too based on those
images in your own risk.
Now, for the purpose of this demo, I'm going to go back to the Quickstart and I will select the Amazon
links to Amy, which is the first one in the list.
So I'm going to select it and this is will take me to the second choice.
In the second choice, we have to select the instance type.
Now each instance type can determine the memory, the CPU, the disk space and the disk type.
And the network performance enables us.
We have five categories.
We have the general purpose, we have the compute optimized, we have the primary optimized instances,
and we have also storage optimized and accelerated computing, those instance type offer a familiar
generation and sizes.
So we have to be careful here in order to know exactly what we are going to learn.
For example, if we have the machine, it's called T three.
The three family has a machine starting from at3 nano, which is a two virtual CPU with a half gigabyte
of memory all the way to two e 3 to 6 large, which is eight virtual CPU use with 32 gigabyte of memory.
Now it's very important to know that the T family is a general purpose, which means the three is the
generation number and T three large, for example, is the size of that machine.
For the purpose of this demo, I'm going just to select another family.
Let's say I want to have a compute optimized instance.
You can find that there is c five dot larger from two virtual CPU with four gigabytes of memory all
the way to C 524 s, not just a large machine that we can use it for a huge enterprise application.
Now, most importantly for the three tier application, if we just want to do a simple demo here, we
can select the T two family, which is another general purpose beside all the other family, like image
three and five and four, which are memory optimized.
Sometimes you have a machine which is like M five, a, which means it's a memory optimized, it's the
fifth generation and also it is network optimized and M5 D is a disk optimized.
You have also machines which are sometimes at disk optimized in the network optimized.
So depending on your need and your application, you can select the right time now for this demo, I'm
going to select the three tier one, which is the T to micro.
In the third decision.
We have to select now that networking settings for where and how we are going to launch this machine.
So normally we need to decide in which VPC, we have to select, we have to launch this easy to by default
you are going to phase or to have what we call the default VPC in North Virginia or in the region.
You are logged in, then we have to enable or to assign public IP.
We can also use the subnet setting for the hostname.
If you are not using a hostname with a DNS hostname as well know the capacity reservation, we can choose
the capacity to be determined by our key bit open or we basically select only target group if we have
or a target by ID.
If we have a target group already created in native us later on, we are going to study this in more
detail.
But for today you could also decide the placement, the group and the placement.
The group decided how your machine will be placed.
And there is a three options here.
Whether you want your machine to be cluster, which means they are going to be in the same availability
zone and close to each other.
And normally we use this choice.
If we have a web server speaking with an application server and a database of or we want them to be
spread, which means each server will be placed in a separate availability zone to avoid any fault or
power cut cutoff in a specific building or in a specific data center.
You could also choose partition, and in this case the group will be partitioned into multi availability
zone in the same region.
Now for the sake of this demo, I will keep this without any placement.
The I am role.
If we are going to assign a specific profile for that easy to let's say our easy to needs to read and
write to C three.
So we are going to pass the role here in this field.
We could also change the behavior of this send down from being a stop to termination.
As you know, the lifecycle of the machine.
When you terminate the machine, this means will be deleted.
Imminently.
If you stop the machine, it will be stopped.
So you can change the shutdown behavior and you make it all the time is stopped.
Instead of terminating the machine for good, you could also enable hibernation and hibernation option.
This means that you can save the data that is currently in the memory of the virtual machine.
If there is a stop action or we change the status of the machine from running to stop, you could also
enable protection against accidental termination, especially when you are still doing some maintenance.
You could prevent that behavior and you can also enable detailed monitoring.
With detailed monitoring, we are going to get of the inside of 5 minutes metrics about the virtual
machine.
We can get a one minute metrics and we can save those checking cloud watch metrics in S3 for doing more
analysis that in NC here, the default is to run it in a shared hardware.
If you use for data regulation, all of you need for data regulation, a dedicated tenancy or a dedicated
hardware.
You can select whether you want a dedicated instance or a dedicated host.
You could also enable elastic interface if you are going to enable elastic accelerator to basically
improve the machine performance.
If you are running a web server in it and you want basically to speed up and to keep a static elastic
IP, then the last thing we want to do is to pass a user data.
And this is a script that will be executed once the machine is started.
And normally in this script we are going to install a specific software in the machine, like a demo
application or an application that we use as we are going to see in Lab three.
In the next step, we are going to decide the storage and the storage as you know, it is elastic storage
and we have multiple types of elastic the storage that we are going to discuss in the next lessons.
Now for today, we are going to keep it general.
As you notice here, there is a magnetic stand up, the storage we call this.
And in extensive storage, it has very cheap price for temporary data, but it has one single issue.
If you stop the machine, all the data in that easy to instance, will be lost.
So this means you can change the time of that.
Easy to, if you choose, maybe stone you could keep the general purpose at.
Now you could also add another volume if you need, but at this case we are not going to add any volume
and we will go to the next step where we add tag.
And it's very important to add tag in order to keep monitoring the resources and we will know why we
create this instance advanced in step six.
We have to configure and to choose the rule that we want to open to control the traffic in and out that
easy to machine.
So in this example, I'm going to call my security group, a demo security group and this demo security
group, I'm going to enable a switch port and I could enable people there is so many ports depending
on your need and your application that you can enable.
But just for this demo, just to show you, I'm going to enable the port at port 80 and this is will
be open and from anywhere I click on review and once the last launches that is going to ask me about
creating a keypad.
This keypad is going to create a public key and a private key.
We are going to download the private key in this case is going to be the key that I'm going to create,
which is demo, for example, and I will download the private key into my computer here and the public
key will be installed in the easy to do machine.
So every time I'm going to access the machine via asset, it will compare the private key to the public
key.
The last step is to click on lunch and this is the easy to innocent.
So these are all the options that we need to worry about in order to launch and easy to successfully.
Once you click on a view, you will find that the instance is going now to change from pending to running,
and you can change the status of the instance of from running to start to stop or to reboot or hibernate
or terminate.
Now remember, terminating also means the machine is going to be deleted completely.
So the innocent lifecycle, once we launch the instances, go to the pending state and after the pending
estate the issue is going to go into the running estate.
If you want to stop the A, you can stop it.
If you want to reboot it, you can reboot it.
And if you want to start it, you can start it again.
Now it is the time for you to do laboratory in larvae three.
We are going to do.
A very simple task.
We are going to create and launch a new Amazon EC2.
We are going to experience how we monitor the EC2 instance and we update the security group to access
a demo observer and then we will change the instance DB and the elastic block storage volume and we
will see the limits of the EC2 and we test the termination protection.
You can refer to the Lab three solution in the attached video.
Thank you for seeing this video and see you in the next one.